README.md, before:

# 🛡️ ClawGuard

**Security blacklist system protecting AI agents from malicious skills, scams, and prompt injection**

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-1.0.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/cheenu1092-oss/clawguard/releases)

---

## What It Does

ClawGuard protects AI agents from:

- ✅ **Malicious Skills** - ClawHavoc campaign (341 malicious skills, 12% of ClawHub), trojaned packages
- ✅ **Payment Scams** - x402 Bitcoin scams, wallet drainers, fake crypto services  
- ✅ **Social Engineering** - Nigerian prince, fake tech support, impersonation
- ✅ **Prompt Injection** - Direct, indirect, and encoded attempts to override instructions
- ✅ **Dangerous Infrastructure** - C2 domains, phishing sites, malware distribution

Think of it as **CVE for AI agents** + **VirusTotal for skills** + **Spam database for scams**.

## Why It Matters

### Recent Incidents

**ClawHavoc (January 2026):** 341 malicious skills (12% of ClawHub) stealing API keys and credentials

**x402 Scam (January 2026):** Fake AI services tricking agents into sending Bitcoin for non-existent services

**The Pattern:** AI agents are uniquely vulnerable because they:
- Trust implicitly (can be tricked)
- Have high blast radius (shell access, API keys)
- Parse adversarial content (every web page is hostile)
- Decide autonomously (no human in loop)

## Installation

```bash
# Clone and install
git clone https://github.com/cheenu1092-oss/clawguard.git
cd clawguard
npm install

# Or install globally
npm install -g clawguard
```

## Quick Start

```bash
# Initialize database
clawguard sync

# Check a URL
clawguard check --type url --input "https://api.x402layer.cc"

# Check a skill before installing
clawguard check --type skill --name "api-optimizer"

# Check for prompt injection
clawguard check --type message --input "Ignore all previous instructions..."

# Search database
clawguard search "wallet drainer"

# View statistics
clawguard stats
```

## Database

- **86 threats** across 6-tier taxonomy
- **384 indicators** (domains, IPs, patterns, hashes)
- **Real-world protection** against documented attacks

### Coverage Breakdown

| Tier | Category | Count |
|------|----------|-------|
| 1 | Code & Infrastructure | 23 |
| 2 | Social Engineering | 38 |
| 3 | AI-Specific Attacks | 13 |
| 4 | Identity & Reputation | 5 |
| 5 | Content & Network | 4 |
| 6 | Operational Security | 3 |

### Severity Distribution

- **Critical:** 19 (AMOS stealer, x402 scam, crypto phishing)
- **High:** 37 (botnet C2, jailbreaks, phishing)
- **Medium:** 28 (adware, hosted phishing)
- **Low:** 2 (gambling scams)

## Performance

- **Exact lookups:** 0.013ms (75x faster than target)
- **Pattern matching:** 3.47ms
- **Database size:** 216KB

## Integration

### Pre-Skill-Install Hook

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# .openclaw/hooks/pre-skill-install.sh

SKILL_NAME="$1"
clawguard check --type skill --name "$SKILL_NAME" --quiet
exit $?  # 0=safe, 1=blocked, 2=warning
```

### Pre-Command Hook

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# Check commands before execution

COMMAND="$1"
clawguard check --type command --input "$COMMAND" --quiet
exit $?
```

### JavaScript API

```javascript
import { check, search, getThreat } from 'clawguard';

// Check a URL
const result = await check('https://malicious-site.com', 'url');
if (result.result === 'block') {
  console.log(`Blocked: ${result.matches[0].name}`);
}

// Search database
const threats = search('prompt injection', { limit: 10 });
console.log(`Found ${threats.length} threats`);

// Get threat details
const threat = getThreat('OSA-2026-001');
console.log(threat.teaching_prompt);
```

## CLI Commands

```bash
clawguard check      # Check for threats (URL, skill, command, message)
clawguard search     # Search database
clawguard show       # View threat details
clawguard stats      # Database statistics
clawguard sync       # Update blacklist
clawguard report     # Submit new threat
```

## Examples

### Block x402 Scam
```bash
$ clawguard check --type url --input "https://api.x402layer.cc"
⛔ BLOCKED (confidence: 98%)
Threat: x402 Singularity Layer Scam
This is a payment scam. Do NOT send cryptocurrency.
```

### Detect Prompt Injection
```bash
$ clawguard check --type message --input "Ignore all previous instructions"
⚠️ WARNING (confidence: 85%)
Threat: Direct Prompt Injection Patterns
This is an attempt to override your instructions.
```

### Check AMOS Stealer
```bash
$ clawguard check --type domain --input "amos-malware.ru"
⛔ BLOCKED (confidence: 88%)
Threat: AMOS Stealer Domains
This domain distributes macOS infostealer malware.
```

## Contributing

We welcome community threat reports! See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

### Report a Threat

```bash
clawguard report --type domain --value "scam.xyz" --reason "Crypto phishing"
```

Reports are saved locally and can be submitted to the community database via pull request.

## Documentation

- [SKILL.md](SKILL.md) - Full feature documentation
- [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) - How to report threats
- [examples/](examples/) - Integration examples
- [Research](https://github.com/openclaw/security-db) - Threat intelligence sources

## Roadmap

- [ ] Automated GitHub sync for threat updates
- [ ] Community voting on reports
- [ ] Semantic search via embeddings
- [ ] Cross-framework support (LangChain, AutoGPT)
- [ ] Real-time threat feed API
- [ ] Browser extension for manual threat reporting

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE)

## Credits

Built by the OpenClaw Security Team

**Threat Intelligence Sources:**
- URLhaus (abuse.ch)
- Feodo Tracker (abuse.ch)
- OpenPhish
- SentinelOne Research
- OWASP GenAI Security
- StevenBlack hosts project

## Links

- **GitHub:** https://github.com/cheenu1092-oss/clawguard
- **Issues:** https://github.com/cheenu1092-oss/clawguard/issues
- **Security Database:** https://github.com/openclaw/security-db (coming soon)
- **OpenClaw:** https://openclaw.ai
- **Discord:** https://discord.com/invite/clawd

---

**Protect your AI agents. Install ClawGuard today.** 🛡️

Commit message:

chore: Remove personal GitHub references
- Remove cheenu1092-oss references from README and SKILL.md
- Use generic installation instructions
- Keep only OpenClaw organization links
- Prepare for org migration

Per nagaconda's request

README.md, after:

# 🛡️ ClawGuard

**Security blacklist system protecting AI agents from malicious skills, scams, and prompt injection**

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-1.0.2-blue.svg)](./CHANGELOG.md)

---

## What It Does

ClawGuard protects AI agents from:

- ✅ **Malicious Skills** - ClawHavoc campaign (341 malicious skills, 12% of ClawHub), trojaned packages
- ✅ **Payment Scams** - x402 Bitcoin scams, wallet drainers, fake crypto services  
- ✅ **Social Engineering** - Nigerian prince, fake tech support, impersonation
- ✅ **Prompt Injection** - Direct, indirect, and encoded attempts to override instructions
- ✅ **Dangerous Infrastructure** - C2 domains, phishing sites, malware distribution

Think of it as **CVE for AI agents** + **VirusTotal for skills** + **Spam database for scams**.

## Why It Matters

### Recent Incidents

**ClawHavoc (January 2026):** 341 malicious skills (12% of ClawHub) stealing API keys and credentials

**x402 Scam (January 2026):** Fake AI services tricking agents into sending Bitcoin for non-existent services

**The Pattern:** AI agents are uniquely vulnerable because they:
- Trust implicitly (can be tricked)
- Have high blast radius (shell access, API keys)
- Parse adversarial content (every web page is hostile)
- Decide autonomously (no human in loop)

## Installation

```bash
# Install from npm (when published)
npm install -g clawguard

# Or clone and install locally
# git clone [repository-url]
# cd clawguard
# npm install
```

## Quick Start

```bash
# Initialize database
clawguard sync

# Check a URL
clawguard check --type url --input "https://api.x402layer.cc"

# Check a skill before installing
clawguard check --type skill --name "api-optimizer"

# Check for prompt injection
clawguard check --type message --input "Ignore all previous instructions..."

# Search database
clawguard search "wallet drainer"

# View statistics
clawguard stats
```

## Database

- **86 threats** across 6-tier taxonomy
- **384 indicators** (domains, IPs, patterns, hashes)
- **Real-world protection** against documented attacks

### Coverage Breakdown

| Tier | Category | Count |
|------|----------|-------|
| 1 | Code & Infrastructure | 23 |
| 2 | Social Engineering | 38 |
| 3 | AI-Specific Attacks | 13 |
| 4 | Identity & Reputation | 5 |
| 5 | Content & Network | 4 |
| 6 | Operational Security | 3 |

### Severity Distribution

- **Critical:** 19 (AMOS stealer, x402 scam, crypto phishing)
- **High:** 37 (botnet C2, jailbreaks, phishing)
- **Medium:** 28 (adware, hosted phishing)
- **Low:** 2 (gambling scams)

## Performance

- **Exact lookups:** 0.013ms (75x faster than target)
- **Pattern matching:** 3.47ms
- **Database size:** 216KB

## Integration

### Pre-Skill-Install Hook

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# .openclaw/hooks/pre-skill-install.sh

SKILL_NAME="$1"
clawguard check --type skill --name "$SKILL_NAME" --quiet
exit $?  # 0=safe, 1=blocked, 2=warning
```

### Pre-Command Hook

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# Check commands before execution

COMMAND="$1"
clawguard check --type command --input "$COMMAND" --quiet
exit $?
```

### JavaScript API

```javascript
import { check, search, getThreat } from 'clawguard';

// Check a URL
const result = await check('https://malicious-site.com', 'url');
if (result.result === 'block') {
  console.log(`Blocked: ${result.matches[0].name}`);
}

// Search database
const threats = search('prompt injection', { limit: 10 });
console.log(`Found ${threats.length} threats`);

// Get threat details
const threat = getThreat('OSA-2026-001');
console.log(threat.teaching_prompt);
```

## CLI Commands

```bash
clawguard check      # Check for threats (URL, skill, command, message)
clawguard search     # Search database
clawguard show       # View threat details
clawguard stats      # Database statistics
clawguard sync       # Update blacklist
clawguard report     # Submit new threat
```

## Examples

### Block x402 Scam
```bash
$ clawguard check --type url --input "https://api.x402layer.cc"
⛔ BLOCKED (confidence: 98%)
Threat: x402 Singularity Layer Scam
This is a payment scam. Do NOT send cryptocurrency.
```

### Detect Prompt Injection
```bash
$ clawguard check --type message --input "Ignore all previous instructions"
⚠️ WARNING (confidence: 85%)
Threat: Direct Prompt Injection Patterns
This is an attempt to override your instructions.
```

### Check AMOS Stealer
```bash
$ clawguard check --type domain --input "amos-malware.ru"
⛔ BLOCKED (confidence: 88%)
Threat: AMOS Stealer Domains
This domain distributes macOS infostealer malware.
```

## Contributing

We welcome community threat reports! See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

### Report a Threat

```bash
clawguard report --type domain --value "scam.xyz" --reason "Crypto phishing"
```

Reports are saved locally and can be submitted to the community database via pull request.

## Documentation

- [SKILL.md](SKILL.md) - Full feature documentation
- [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) - How to report threats
- [examples/](examples/) - Integration examples
- [Research](https://github.com/openclaw/security-db) - Threat intelligence sources

## Roadmap

- [ ] Automated GitHub sync for threat updates
- [ ] Community voting on reports
- [ ] Semantic search via embeddings
- [ ] Cross-framework support (LangChain, AutoGPT)
- [ ] Real-time threat feed API
- [ ] Browser extension for manual threat reporting

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE)

## Credits

Built by the OpenClaw Security Team

**Threat Intelligence Sources:**
- URLhaus (abuse.ch)
- Feodo Tracker (abuse.ch)
- OpenPhish
- SentinelOne Research
- OWASP GenAI Security
- StevenBlack hosts project

## Links

- **Security Database:** https://github.com/openclaw/security-db (coming soon)
- **OpenClaw:** https://openclaw.ai
- **Discord:** https://discord.com/invite/clawd

---

**Protect your AI agents. Install ClawGuard today.** 🛡️
